When analyzing product performance,
it is often helpful to break down customers into different segments.
A user segment is a group of users that share something in common.
Not all customers use our product in the same way or for the same reason.
Breaking down data analysis by user segment,
provides valuable information about how
features appeal to certain types of users over others.
As a product manager,
we often have access to a lot of data about our users.
When thinking about how to segment that user data,
we can consider three main categories.
First, we can segment users by
their acquisition date or when they started using a product or feature.
This is often referred to as cohort analysis.
A cohort is a group of users who share
a common experience of starting the use of a product at around the same time.
Second, we can segment users by demographic similarities.
Demographics are anything that describe a user as a person,
such as age and gender.
The third type of segment is based on a user's behavior when using a product or feature,
such as being a low or high use customer.
By analyzing data via the lens of customer segments,
we can find where different segments perform differently.
When certain user segments perform above or below average,
this provides hints about areas for further research.
While user segmentation can provide a great starting place
that sets us on the path to discovery of product opportunities,
a note of caution is appropriate here.
Just because segments differ in performance does not mean
the distinction between the segments is the cause of the difference in performance.
Segment analysis provides insight that helps product managers decide what elements of
the product and the customer experience might be most
valuable to research and experiment upon further.